in 1970.
His doctoral work was on the 18th century London book trade, and he has published extensively on this subject.
Many of you knew Terry in Columbia, where he brought further than now, because the library was through there, by founding the Book Art Thread in 1971, and in
founding the Rare Book School.
He moved Book Arts Press and Rare Book School to the University of Virginia in 1992, where he accepted his appointment as university professor and honorary curator of special collections.
dreams that I continue, that I refuse to accomplish, to attend the radical team someday.
And particularly now that I've read it, students commented on it and called it an intellectual Hawaii.
Well, Terry and the press and the school are enriching and inspiring the actors in Virginia now.
And to enrich and inspire is what a great teacher does.
And we all can attest, I think, tonight to that inspiration that goes beyond the classroom that we know will be with us for the rest of our lives.
Uh, Terry, we asked you to speak to Tony.
We're going on a principle that it takes a great teacher to know him.
So it's a very great pleasure to introduce to you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Terry Dellinger.
Is it just like home?
When we talk about a book, say for instance, Charlotte Bronte's Jane Eyre, we generally mean one but not both of two quite different things.
We may be talking about the now-woke as an intellectual construct.
A very particular assemblage of words and sentences forming the text of Bronte's book was made manifest through any one of a great number of copies.
On the other hand, we may be talking about a particular copy of Jane Eyre.
as a single, unique, physical object.
We may, for example, be talking about a particular one of the several battered copies of Jane Eyre in the Book Arts Press collection back in Charlottesville of the well-known 1943 Random House edition with Woodard Graves' illustration of Spicer's eigenfathers.
Or we may be talking about a particular copy of the second classic mass-market paperback edition of Jane Eyre, available
sale at Baldwin's Book Barn in Westchester, Pennsylvania, but available for sale no longer because I bought it last weekend.
Specifically, a copy of the 40th printing of the Signum Classic Edition of Jane Eyre, the copy about to have a booker expressed book plate put in it on its inside cover, the copy now sitting on the opposing stone,
in the Press Room, in Alderman Library, in the University of Virginia, in Charlotte School, Virginia, 2903, United States of America, Western Hemisphere, or Polar Center.
A unique, single physical object in our universe.
When we use one or the other of these two quite different meanings of the word book, we almost always do it without feeling the need for further descriptive explanation, confidence that the context will be clear whether we're talking about any copy of a particular title or a particular copy of any title.
For those of us who kneel on frequent basis with books as physical objects, tend, I think, to forget that most people are concerned with books as intellectual constructs and not as physical objects.
Most people think of paper simply and primarily and sensibly as a support for whatever text happens to be sitting upon its surface.
Consider the following little story.
Some years ago, a Canadian paper maker working at Massey College in Toronto, named Andrew Smith, produced a special book.
He made sheets of paper by hand, and he bound up the folded sheets to make a blank book.
He then cut out a Canadian $100 bill with small pieces.
and he pasted the pieces of the $100 bill onto various leaves of the blank book.
If I remember correctly, he called his completed work paper money, and he offered it for sale for a great deal more than $100.
Many people who saw copies of paper money were outraged, thus no doubt fulfilling the intention of the maker.
which was surely to focus attention on the difference between paper as intellectual construct and paper as physical logic.
The difference between books like Jane Eyre as intellectual construct as opposed to physical artifacts is one that we're so used to that usually we never think about it, but consider a quite different situation in the art world.
When we talk about Union Art Division's Mona Lisa, we're usually referring to a particular painting hanging in the Louvre in Paris.
There's little likelihood that anyone is in conversation going to confuse the Paris painting with, say, the picture on the package of Mona Lisa chocolates.
When I say that I've never seen the Mona Lisa, you know just what I mean.
That I've never actually stood in front of a particular physical object at the Louvre.
You assume I know what the Mona Lisa is and what it looks like because of the availability of copies of the original, not only on the cover of candy boxes, but also in the art books that I used in school and on picture postcards and so on.
But whereas reproductions of the Mona Lisa may be more or less acceptable or convenient substitutes for the original painting, nobody, at least yet, pretends that they are satisfactory replacements with the original.
Thus, while I can speak fairly easily about Jane Eyre in both an intellectual and an artifactual way, the book versus a particular copy of the book,
are considerably more difficultly in doing so about the Mona Lisa, which, at least in many ways, is not an intellectual construct at all.
It is simply and necessarily and inescapably an artifact.
It may be that someday we will have easy access to surveys for the Mona Lisa that are so good that they will accommodate most of the needs primarily satisfied only by the original artifact,
and the electronic version of the Mona Lisa, full-sized and so detailed, with colors so faithful, that we will not be able to recognize the difference between the original and its electronics area from, say, six feet away.
But that day will presumably be a while on coming, although it will surely come.
And meanwhile, the goal between the original one and only Mona Lisa in Paris and the currently accessible surrogates is a wide one.
The Mona Lisa lives comfortably at the center of the world of fine arts.
In the world of the book arts, the distinctions between artifact and intellectual construct can become a bit blurred
But still, I hear you thinking, if one is serious, one must always have access to the original.
You probably believe that statement, and so do I. But consider the difference between general librarians and rare book librarians.
General librarians are concerned with intellectual constructs.
Rare book librarians are concerned with physical objects.
Rare book librarians are, relatively speaking, few in number.
General librarians, at least by comparison, are very numerous.
The library profession in this country, over the past century and more, has been dominated by persons concerned with closest intellectual constructs, professionals dedicated to making information available as broadly as possible to the largest number of persons possible.
And good for them.
A noble undertaking which, however, can go too far,
As books are for use, they are going to continue to argue.
If your copy gets used up in the process of being read, then get another one, or buy a reframe, or use a Microsoft copy, or make a prototype, or find a copy available in machine-readable form.
General librarians are suspicious of all constraints on access to knowledge, including the constraints imposed by regular librarians.
on the use of rare and fragile securities in their charge.
And what is true of general librarians is even more true of most general readers, who almost always think in terms of intellectual constructs, not physical objects.
And because this is so, because there are a great many readers and general librarians, and relatively few rare book librarians and persons otherwise interested in the book particular physical object,
An important job of education faces over the rest of us.
It becomes all those who are in constitutional arts or in books as physical objects from any point of view to join in the effort to help libraries identify physically interesting books in their perception and encourage them to retain such books as physical objects in their present condition without reminding them or putting their intellectual contents into a different physical format.
It does seem to me that one could wait forward such developments to send as part of their book by Brains themselves to the importance of the physical nature of the materials in that care and to encourage them to learn as much as they can about type, paper, printing, illustrations, binding, and original distribution and later destinations of their books.
so that they will be able to defend them against physical objects if necessary against their own supervisors.
The more knowledgeable curious they are, the less believable they are.
This is my justification for establishing Rare Book School at Columbia University in 1983, and for causing to be offered therein such courses as the physical bibliography of early printed books, or the history of paper making, or the history of typography, or the history of binding, or book illustration, and so on, and for moving Rare Book School to the University of Virginia in 1992.
And I say to this audience that one of my inspirations in studying on various book arts programs, both at Columbia and at the University of Virginia, was Laurie John Crisola.
Mrs. Young lived at 21 Claremont Avenue, behind Barnard College, and less than two blocks from the main gate of Columbia University.
And so did I.
The Youngs had a big apartment on an upper floor of 21 Claremont.
I had a small, dark apartment on a lower floor of 21 Claremont.
Carol Dermont used to say that my apartment was so dark that the only husk plant I could grow successfully was fungus.
The dark apartment actually wanted to throw them on evidence, but it was the same guilty.
And I used to see Mr. and Mrs. Young quite often in the elevator and the hallway.
In the 1970s, I visited Mrs. Young on a number of occasions in her studio, located just behind Kay Coney on West Orange District, and talked with her, among many other matters, about her involvement over the years with various book arts programs at Columbia, some of them located in the space of the Post Office on 115th and Amsterdam.
When I talked with her in the early 1970s, Mrs. Young was not trending towards Columbia University.
The paper-making, book-finding, and psychology programs with which she had been involved in Columbia in the 40s and 50s had been swept away, beginning in the later 50s when Jacques Barza became provost at the university.
This is not a crazy school, he said.
and he abolished a distinguished collection of general studies-based courses in printing publishing.
That's very interesting.
The instructors of those courses, Mrs. Young informed me, with considerable satisfaction, managed to make off with a considerable amount of Columbia-owned paper-natees.
And no, she told me, really, when I was setting up the Booker Express, she would not tell me where that clip and down was.
And she never did.
Let me add...
parenthetically, that Mrs. Young could be an expert at grit.
In her grit face, she reminds me of a story they tell at the Huntington Library.
In San Marino, there's an oil painting at the Huntington, about Henry Huntington's former little wife, Arabella Huntington.
hanging on a wall next to the elevator in an ante drum outside of one of the Huntington's 18th century picture galleries.
In 1922, when Mrs. Huntington first saw this painting in her soul, she made the artist rework it.
It was too flattering, she said.
As repainted, Mrs. Huntington now looks pretty grim.
So much so indeed that on one occasion,
The visiting college class brushed it out of the elevator and into the ante-drill, and their instructor directed the class's attention to the painting of Arabella, saying, knowledgeably, she pointed to it, Mrs. Sitton says that magic music.
These events at Columbia University, not only in the 40s and 50s, but also in the 80s and 90s, suggested that Innocence Young had good reason to be correct about Columbia, and to keep her master about the location they could make in the book like that.
Though in fairness, I don't think you need to mourn the loss of much Bookart's press property as the result of the translation.
Back to artifacts and intellectual constructs and the training of general liberal librarians.
Granted that liberal librarians now or eventually gain a thorough understanding of and a proper respect for the books as physical objects, the next step, you might think, is to carry the message to the general librarians and supervise the liberal librarians.
In many cases, this is not difficult to do.
In a case, by way of illustration,
Consider a copy of the first edition of a new deal's book by me, which is background in technique at one time or another, published in two volumes in 1946.
A copy of the first edition was badly worn without its slipcase, then with the cover staining and the pages brought here, not a very good copy.
But what if I told you that this particular copy of this particular book was once owned by Mrs. Young, and then she had carried it in her studio on 115 Street.
and that the generation of students had consulted it and listened to Mr. Young's reservations about some of his contents.
The talismanic qualities of this copy of Edith Biel's book, its artifactual values, now go up considerably for reasons which may resist logical analysis, but which are very real nonetheless.
The book may be statistically in bad shape, but
It must be conserved as an object if it is to be retained at all.
A microform or photocopy of this copy of the appeal book has little purpose.
In concerning ourselves with the artifactual aspects of books, we do not need to rely only on examples of which are based in pedagogical sentiment for their argument.
Take life magazine.
The history of commercial color photography in this country was written in the pages of Life magazine.
It was immensely popular.
Was there a barbershop for the beauty parlor in the 1950s that you can have copies to look at?
Libraries too block and ground up copies, usually too many issues in one volume, however, with the result that most library runs of Light Magazine are now in rather bad shape, and their physical condition is not challenged by the fact that Light Magazine was printed on a heavy plate-coated paper from which the ink cracks off with lowly even lines.
No matter, we may think, Black Magazine is available on microfilm.
Or is it?
The microfilm is available, and the person libraries in Manhattan have a copy.
But the microfilm is in black and white.
Color microfilm, like other kinds of colored film, is inherently unstable.
Colors don't stick true.
Microfilm vendors don't use it, and libraries don't buy it.
If you wish to study the history of commercial color photography then, you'd better have access to a run of the original Life Magazine, at least until it appears electronically on the web.
The black and white microfilm copies just won't do.
As it happens, long runs of Life Magazine are becoming increasingly pricey optics, and it will cost you several thousand dollars to get a complete run.
You see, your crazy Aunt Agnes is right.
She says that you were something.
Well, now they are.
That's great.
It's likely the case that many of us, especially but not exclusively our older ones, have permanent value only just as the logics.
There's no need to read the 1943 printing of Jane Eyre as opposed to the 1975 printing or the 1997 printing.
Any good edition of the book will do.
As being the case, a copy of the 1943 printing of Jane Eyre is as disposable as last week's TV Guide.
Unless a particular copy of the 1943 printing was annotated by Barry Moser,
or there's a presentation description from chris eidenberg to lynn ward on flying or is rebound in full goatskin by lower young or has other sufficiently compelling artifactual qualities all of which is to say that by no means all or even many of the surviving copies of the 1943
printing of Jane Eyre will, or even particularly, need to be preserved.
And furthermore, it may be that not even the intellectual contents of the 1943 edition, with the exception of the illustrations, will be preserved, that they don't differ from the intellectual contents of earlier printings of the book.
On the other hand, some copies of this printing are going to be valuable as physical objects, as artifacts, and are going to need to be looked after.
We are all going to be living in interesting times with the next several decades as regards to the world and the physical book.
This posting could be a good time to look ahead and in doing so to look back as well, for we've seen a great plumbering of our joint concerns over the past several decades.
Of the great growth since the 1960s there can be no doubt.
Think thus to the bibliography and newsletters that have appeared in the book arts since the founding of the Bibliography Newsletter in 1973, and we can take a date which speaks to my mom.
And we can find that shortwave's matrix.
the newsletter of the American Printing History Association, itself founded a year later in 1974, and its journal Printing History.
The newsletters of the Guild of Book Workers and of the American Typecasting, of the American Tech Conference Fellowship, The Paper Conservator, Hand Papermaking, The Abbey Newsletter, The Auckland Paper Advocate, Conservation of Masters and Food, The New Book Finder, Publishing History, Rebels and Manuscripts Librarianship from RBMS,
and, God help us, Biblio.
The list goes on and on.
Why this sharp increase of interest in book art in the 1970s, represented by such an outburst of journals?
One reason may be that the book as a physical object began to become more visible in the late 1960s, as virography began to become common, and as non-print media became ever more important as a means of communication.
and as later computer-generated machine-readable information sources began to emerge.
Machine-readable information, for the most part, displayed or set forth on paper, to be sure, and often in book format, but disposable to use and to throw away because backed up by electronic originals.
Yes, I know.
People have been predicting the end of the codex book since McLuhan in a long time before.
But still, look around you.
You can buy in cheaply the CRT Bible or CRT Shakespeare.
They're no longer laptop, they're palm.
Surely, we're going to be renting or buying book chips
to acknowledge the way we now grant provide video cassette tapes or otherwise download electronic information for use in our own personal reading and viewing devices.
The speed at which all of this is happening is threatening.
In the summer of 1980, I sat down in my first word processor.
It was a DEC, a DEX machine, Digital Equipment Corporation, and it was the size of the boat slides.
If you ate in 20 disks, it really worked well.
If you get about 40 double pages, or if you get about 40 double-spaced pages with type script on each disk, it took two and a half minutes for the machine to move from one end of the diskette to the other.
and we all thought we would perfectly want to change.
A couple of years later, our debt was replaced by a debt maker.
And then our dedicated word processors were replaced by IBM XTs and then by 386s.
In the fall of 1989, I received a letter from Paul Mito from Venice, then still the astro-creator of Pinnacles and Binding, Morgan, to which he had dug his epony
Printed in a type-quality font on a Hewlett-Packard laser jet printer, Time Throne.
It was the first personal letter in 1989 that I had ever received that was set in type, as opposed to a typewriter basis like Courier or Prestige.
And I was consumed with gelatin.
That's wonderful.
By the end of 1989, I had a way to just... I do introduce letters sometimes wrong, and did, or later, zap political, according to the most recently century school book.
Boy, do I. The electronic or variety I've just given you has relevance
In your electronic history, I can see some of the grown-ups in the audience rolling their eyes in the notion of 8-inch floppy disk.
Many of you, too, have lurched your way from dedicated word processors to laptop powerbooks over the past, what, 15 years?
Surely not much longer than that.
I sat down at my DEC dedicated word processor for the first time in 1980, less than 17 years ago.
Kodak's books are going to continue to be a part of our lives, and an important one.
But books are already a lot more visible to most people than they used to be, and they're going to be a lot more still in the future.
The fish don't see the water they swim in, but they certainly notice when the level in the tank begins to sink.
Most of us have a considerable instinctive affection for the Codex book.
One of my own speech party tricks in teaching descriptive bibliography in Virginia, and indeed in Columbia as well, is to take a late 19th or early 20th century book, usually a cloth-bound one with a pictorial cover, hold the book up and talk about its contents, design, and construction a bit, and then, without warning, rip it in half.
and systematically tear it to shreds, as I accuse my horrified students of being overly sentimental about books as physical objects.
Books, I say, as I head for the weight paper basket, with the shards of the book I have just destroyed, are for use.
I think that our... I didn't pick the books I developed fairly carefully.
I think that our sentimentality, of course, the physical book has been growing as the book becomes, slowly but surely, ever less necessary a part of our daily lives.
A parallel case presents itself.
As a society, we are far more sentimental about the force
since it seems to be our major mode of transportation.
We use horses now mostly for play, not for work.
The same thing slowly but surely is happening with the physical look.
It is becoming more an object of play than work.
Our service formats are becoming more and more sophisticated, and soon, for example, the argument I used a moment ago in favor of preserving hard copies of Life magazine is no longer going to be valid.
We will no longer need to rely on the black-and-white microfilm copies of Life magazine.
Instead, we will have high resolution video copies in color, or on compact discs, or available on the World Wide Web.
with easy access to any year or week in Life Magazine's long run, Phileadest, and copies will be available everywhere to prove.
What's going to happen to our originals as our substitutional formats get better and better and convey a greater and greater amount of the information provided by the original physical object?
But I replied, the presence of Life magazine in digitized form is not to leave us of the necessity of holding on to our hard copies.
We still need the hard copies to study such obvious aspects of the original as the paper it was printed on.
Hold the thought.
James Berger once said that a dog's best friend is probably another dog.
An old book's best friend is indifference.
At the moment, books do best and last longest when they are kept closed on the shelf, uncatalogued, unread, unexhibited, unrebounded, unconserved, unmicrofilmed, unstopped, uninteresting, unopened, unused, unloved, unpunished.
In most library contexts, books are staged for their own physical preservation only by accident.
They are there, ready to be used, only as it happens, no one wants to use them.
They say that books in the German language and the University of Chicago Library stats are used on average once every 40 years.
From this curious position, such books have, at least until recently, been allowed to remain without question.
Research libraries, after all, are largely out of books, but that in the moment, nobody wants to read.
In the several decades since the end of World War II, certain libraries in this country have been almost uniformly enthusiastic about increasing rapidly in size, partly in order to support their research missions.
partly from local or regional pride and partly because, left to their own devices, libraries tend to grow almost all by themselves anyway.
American variable collections have grown along with the general research libraries of which they tend to be a part.
Many of them, indeed, have grown more rapidly than their general counterparts.
This has been a general situation since the Second World War, though I wonder how much longer it is going to last.
No rare book library, public or private, can buy, or catalog, or house, or preserve everything.
All libraries increasingly must rely on copies, whether by the film or otherwise.
Physically reformatted versions of the originals held elsewhere, or physically reformatted copies of their own originals, whether they all have been destroyed in the process of formatting.
or historically, formatting is being no longer cost-effective or otherwise necessary to retain the original form.
Many of the search libraries are going to continue indefinitely to hang on to part of their holdings in their original formats, particularly their rare book holdings.
But we're not going to be able to continue to preserve, in their original format, a great many old books.
And we are going to become increasingly expert at the techniques of triage
separating the seriously hurt from the walking wounded and leaving the morrow behind.
The old books most likely to survive are those still in good condition, and in their original or at least contemporary bindings.
Old books, even rebound in the Clancy Library Buckroom, with no intrinsic artistic or at least some sort of graphic appeal, are going to have a hard time with it.
and many of them are going to end up in book art's press collections or in a sanitary landfill.
Indeed, some of us are going to discover that a great part of our jobs is to lead the procession to adult.
For us, it's quite a different way.
A rare book and other special collections, public and private, are those which have include some significance or relevance as physical objects.
There will also be continued pressure for rare book libraries to become museums of the book.
A movement which, however, will cause increasing tensions between these rare book libraries and the larger institutions of which they are a part.
Rare book libraries may become museums of the book, but are most academic libraries going to be willing to support the expenses of such museum operations?
Or are most academic institutions as a whole?
Returning to my earlier example, will research libraries in general be willing to maintain hard copies of Life magazine as our surrogates become more and more satisfactory alternatives to the reader for most purposes?
Not for your purposes, perhaps, because you, for a soul, are an historian of colored photography, but for the purposes of the vast majority of Jeff readers.
Institutions that decide to sell their artifacts and get out of the physical object business entirely, and many of them are going to do just that, and in the near future, you may be sure, will not do so merely from a desire to make money.
They won't get that much for their real books, by and large.
They will sell because they want to save money, to save housing costs, to save preservation costs, and most of all, to save staffing costs.
It won't happen in the next decade, but in the next 50 years or so, I predict confidently we're going to see the wholesale transfer of old books out of American academic libraries at a scale that we have not seen anywhere since the decades immediately following the French Revolution.
Well, as over the next 50 years, let me hand you back to the present and return to another reason why we live in interesting columns.
In 1977, Robert D. Silver said publicly that if he had had to begin his scholarly career over again in the 1970s, he could never have written his books and articles because of the many and steadily increasing restrictions on the use of materials in the libraries he used over the past several decades.
In this connection, it's worth remembering that members of the American African Society in Worcester,
had keys to the eight A.S.
buildings there until well within the tenure of the emeritus director, Lachis McCorris, who retired in 1992.
And those members could enter the Antrarian Hall to work at any time of the day or night.
Then there's Michael Linship, who says that if he had to begin work now, and Michael was a married child, who says that if he had to work now on Jacob Lange's great multivolum bibliography of
American Authors, Visiography of American Literature, the first volume of which appeared in 1955, and he was an eternal, he could never do it.
Copies of VAL books and their original bindings are rapidly disappearing to a considerable extent as the result of the current research library enthusiasm for rebinding, photocopying, microfilming, digitizing, and other kinds of physical reformatting.
A great many of the titles in the language of the Bibliography of American Literature were originally published in the second half of the 19th century, and in the first three decades, the 20th of time, when the quality of materials used in bookmaking underwent a steady, progressive, deterioration as regards both progress and durability.
Both fault is not entirely as a paper and cloth from which 19th and 30th century books are made.
American libraries have been, at least until very recently, notoriously inhospitable physical environments for books, kept as they are in stacks that alternate between being too hot and too dry in the winter and too hot and too wet in the summer.
One of my personal scholarly surprises was my first experience in using 17th and 18th century English books in English libraries.
The paper in those books was white.
I had been used to looking at Columbia and New York Public copies of the same books.
This paper was yellow.
And I remember the Oxford librarian, Michael Turner, who I remember to be shocked when he first saw ranges of English books in American libraries.
He had thought that the older books in bodily were showing signs of wear.
American copies of Hitler's books were at much worse shape than scope.
Environmental conditions have been improving in a great many rural libraries around the country recently.
Many of them are air-conditioned and humidity controlled, and some of them, like the Brotherhood Club, now even leave their air-conditioning on over the weekend.
Rural libraries are learning what their colleagues in museums have known for a much longer time.
that their responsibilities are essentially curatorial in nature, that they are primarily responsible for a collection of physical objects and not for the collection of intellectual constructs over which, by contrast, most general librarians reside and wish to survive.
Increasingly, river librarians are so sensitive to the physical means of the frequently very fragile materials in their care that they take preservation as their primary mission.
With the result of that, unsurprisingly, tensions arise between readers and rare book librarians as to whether or not the readers will be allowed to read a certain original text or only a physically reformatted copy of it.
Readers in libraries want to read books, that's why they're called readers.
What about bibliographers who have better things to do?
Tensions also arise between bibliographers and rare book librarians as to whether or not the bibliographers will be allowed to study a certain original as a physical object because of curatorial fears that an overly close physical examination or manipulation of the item will significantly damage it.
What happens, in short, when Michael Sadler shows up at the door of the rare book room and wants to make the detailed collation of your first edition of Jane Eyre,
Or when Mr. Briquet shows up and wants to make a tracing of a watermark in one of your funerals.
Or when Edwin Wolfe shows up and wants to make a tracing of one of the embossed leather bindings.
Or when Stanley Morrison shows up and wants to look at one of the 17th-century European text testament books through his pocket microscope.
Or when Charlton Hinman shows up and wants to put one of your 16th century play editions into his cover here.
Or when I show up and want to roll my pocket photocopier across the first edition of your edition of Ivanhoe.
Or when you show up wanting to make it a rubbing of a Dutch binding, blind stamp binding.
They don't let you walk on their old Persian rubs at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, or let you drink out of their Renaissance wine glasses.
That's great.
Such fun.
three kinds of renaissance wine glasses or letting you sit in your seat in your armchairs.
Yet readers in rare bookrooms, and bibliographically sophisticated ones in particular, routinely expect to be able to handle the rare books and read them, or at least to finger them and calling them and to place objects on them and draw them in traits and photograph and photocopy and microfilm and destroy them.
Not to be sure,
Michael Sadler, Mr. Briquet, or Edwin Wolfe, or Stanley Morrison, or Charlton Hymna, all of whom may be presumed to be happily colliding and praising and rubbing and otherwise torturing books and physical objects in the happy hunting grounds.
But still, those who are among the living are in the process of being hoist by our own guitarists.
We are increasing the interest of the book as a physical object and rightly so.
We segregate our rare books and prevent promiscuous access to them so that they will survive intact as accurate representations of their time.
We want readers to take an interest in the books of physical objects in their paper type, illustrations, construction binding, in their manuscript annotations, and other signs of use.
Unfortunately, the close studies of books of physical objects tends to damage the books.
So where does this leave us?
Over the shortfall, students of the Wilkis artifact are going to find that access to the outreach they want to study is going to become increasingly difficult.
Over the long haul, they're going to find such access to be increasingly impossible because a great many of the books will by then become sanitary landfill.
And because relatively few remaining ones, the books will have been allowed to remain.
in their original physical formats because of their pristine condition or sentimental values.
Icons will be so valuable that almost nobody will be allowed to look at them, let alone the collage or trace or row or otherwise common physical contact with them.
Still, always not lost.
Remember the analogy of the horse I used a few minutes ago, where the horse started out as means of transportation.
but since the advent of the train and the car and the plane has become more an object of play than at work.
I sold that very useful analogy from Santa Kirstenbaum, by the way.
For the making of books, there is no end, and this seems likely to remain the case even as our electronic arrangements proliferate.
The Codex book is going to have a long, happy Indian summer.
The immediacy of words printed on paper will always remain, and at the moment at least, the excitement of the book as artifact, of the thing itself, continues.
I had an interesting confirmation to this point last year when I was giving a lecture to Skidmore College in Saratoga.
My subject was 19th century illustration processes, and I illustrated the lecture not with slides, but with copies.
for everyone present, of actual examples of the processes I was talking about.
I was told to expect about a hundred persons in my audience in Saratoga, and in fact, this over that number showed up.
My hosts, as prudently, invited a large number of locals to a pre-latue difference, and then made sure that no one was allowed to escape between a certain intellectually.
In preparation for a 100-person audience, I had made up a few more than 50 folders of blue coverstock and loaded each folder with 12 different examples, each in its own polyestered closure, of illustration processes common in the 19th century, including examples of woodcut, white-lined facsimile and interpreted wood engraving,
talk manner and transfer lithography, steel engraving, process relief line and halftone, acronym photo reviewer, color type, and so on.
Working two persons to a blue boulder, the audience could follow along from example to example as I presented my lecture.
I can show you how the system works.
They came down on cue, didn't they?
Thank you.
I brought 55 folks with me, and there are about 80 of you here, I think.
So I should be enough folks to go around, and those of you who are here with someone will share with you.
That's a digitized version, right?
Mm-hmm.
18, look at the date on it.
It's yesterday, or today, isn't it?
Wow.
Each of the loop holders now handed out contains an original example of posed in a polyester enclosure, taking the book out very bad, what was named, you know, by the ditch of the water birds, a great program for the water station.
Of the water bird volume of Thomas Hewitt's 1804, Mr. Bridge First,
And each enclosure contains, sometimes on two separate leaves, and sometimes on both sides of the single leaf.
There's these two original images, a Buick wood engraving of a water bird, and one of the enchanting little wood engravings, and yes, Buick used as tail pieces throughout the book.
You can open and carefully handle the originals without interference.
Looking at the illustration process, the polyester is like a kiss and a glass.
Each polyester also contains a folded sheet, on which I have photocopied in the margins of four different different birds that we have to speak.
So the finding contains an unfolded sheet of white paper on which I copied electronically both a big and small version of one of the four enlarges.
I downloaded the big and small images
Do you believe this?
From the Buick website.
Wow.
That's amazing.
It's aimed by the Edmonton Art Gallery in Canada that has the whole Buick office there.
Amazing.
Now back to my Skidmore College lecture last year, I used Peer Richmond Buick Plus when I was in front of you as examples of white, white, woody bacon.
And here I had an enormous piece of good luck.
A considerable part of my audience was made up of Skidmore undergraduates.
They had not identified the different formats.
Their attendance had been secured through a simpler and even more effective device.
They were taking an English department course on the 19th century British novel, and the instructors simply assigned my lecture to them as part of their coursework.
They had to show up.
The core novel in their course on the British novel, the book they kept coming back to throughout the semester and re-reading, was Charlotte Bronte's Jane Eyre.
Now, those of you in my audience who are better read than I am, I'm sure it's both of you and have better memories, which I'm sure it's all of you who know where this discussion is heading.
For the novel Jane Eyre opens on a rainy afternoon in November with a famous first sentence.
There was no possibility of taking a walk that day.
The young Jane Eyre, unfairly recommended yet once again by her nasty stepmother, steals off to an alcove window seat where she possesses herself of a volume, taking care that it should be once stored with pictures.
The book she has chosen is by Buick's History of British Birds.
And she tells us that, sitting cross-legged like a Turk on her window seat, she is mesmerized by Buick's little vignettes.
It gave significance to the rock standing up alone in a sea of billow and fray,
to the broken boat, stranded on a desolate coast, to the cold and ghastly moment, glancing through bars of the cloud, at a wreck just thinking.
You've got copies of these, I guess, in front of you.
I cannot tell if Jane Eyre can take this, what Senate haunted the quiet, solitary churchyard with its inscribed headstone, its gate, its two trees, its slow horizon, girdled by a broken wall and its new risen crescent.
attesting the hour of even time.
The fiend pinned down the thief's pack.
Behind him I tapped over quickly.
It was an object of terror.
Each picture told a story, mysterious often to my other developed understanding and imperfect feelings, yet ever profoundly interesting.
And so on.
Members of my student audience have original examples of a vignette like these in their blue folders.
And when I identified them, as deriving from Thomas Dewey's history of British birds, the response was electrifying.
The students in the novel course all knew their Jane Gare very well, but apparently no one had thought to hunt down a copy of Hewitt and take a look at his wood engravings of birds or their accompanying vignettes.
or to look for viewer images even out in the world right now.
Did she actually identify the engineer?
Yeah.
But now the members of my Stipmar audience have the viewer bird and the viewer vignette in front of them.
Turning again to the viewer vignettes in front of you, take a look at the unfolded sheet and take a look at the big and small version of the thief in his load.
which is downloaded from the Edmonton World Wide Web page.
The big version you can have is simply a blow-up of the small version, which is the size of the U.S.
original.
In this big version, the image-producing pixels are all too visible.
Of course, they're still there in the smaller version, but harder to see, and therefore less subtracting to the viewer because of the reduced size.
Neither the big nor the small versions of the thief and his loathe is as clear as the photocopy of the original wood engraving of the thief and his loathe.
On the folded sheet, you have contained four at large vignettes.
And I hope you will agree that none of these reproductions has the immediacy and impact of the original vignettes, one of which you also have in front of you.
Indeed, one of you has the original of all of these examples in front of you.
It's the immediate need
of the original, the chapters are attended.
No substitute for it is entirely accepted.
That's it.
That's a copy.
And a large copy of the original has its uses for study purposes, but there is no substitute for the original.
One wants both of them, perhaps, but finally, if one is serious about the other's foot engravings, if one is serious about anything, one must have access to the original.
Okay, now I'm going to have these to call a fool.
I'm going to pass it down.
That's funny.
In their Skidmore manifestation, these posters had, each had 12 personalities each and one of them.
And there's something to think.
Well, one paid for so much money, but second to get it to Skidmore, because it's still a lot.
It was an exciting day because FedEx is lost again.
Obviously, if FedEx didn't visit Skidmore, lost it.
It was delivered.
Everybody knew where it was in Skidmore.
It was discovered during dinner.
I had a lecture.
So here we are again.
Back to justification for what many of these people are living, and for rare book school, and for causing to be offered therein such courses as the physical bibliography of early minute books, and the history of paper making, and the history of typography, and the history of book illustration or book writing.
The justification for rare book school, and for such things as rare book school,
whether conducted in New York City, or Charlottesville, or Boston, or Bloomington, or Hanover, or University of Alabama, or Worcester, or in the small studio on the 15th Street.
We need constantly to show books, real books, to the present generation, young and old, and to its successors.
and to do what we can to ensure that the most comprehensive, or at least the most representative, collection of actual examples survive, so that we can continue to have grist for our bibliographical mills.
We must not deprive the future of the past.
Thank you very much.